---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Witnessing the First Virtual 24 Hours of Le Mans

Aside from the ten years occupied by the Second World War and Europe's
subsequent recovery, the 24 Heures du Mans endurance race has taken
place at the Circuit de la Sarthe in Northwestern France every June
since 1923. This past year's race (2019) was the *eighty-seventh*
running of the event. Obviously, much has changed about the occasion and
motor racing in general over the course of its vast, colored history,
but this year is its first departure from our physical plane of
existence. In March, the organizers of the event -- Automobile Club de
l\'Ouest and the Fédération Internationale de l\'Automobile (FIA) --
[announced the
postponement](https://www.lemans.org/en/news/the-24-hours-of-le-mans-postponed-to-19-20-september-2020/53553)
of 2020's race until September 19-20^th^ thanks to the coronavirus
pandemic, when World Endurance Championship CEO Gerard Neveu [recently
insisted](https://www.msn.com/en-us/sports/more-sports/le-mans-24-hours-must-happen-says-wec-boss/ar-BB14gCaA)
it *will* happen with or without spectators. Like many fans, I mourned.
Le Mans weekend has become the single recurring sporting event in my
adult life for which I plan and count on annually (read: it's basically
all I have to look forward to ever year.) Many series across the entire
spectrum of the sporting world had reacted to imposition of social
distancing measures by turning to their respective sport's
already-burgeoning at-home eSports alternatives, [including NASCAR and
Formula
One](https://www.msn.com/en-us/sports/esports/nascar-and-f1-drivers-are-holding-esports-competitions-in-lieu-of-sunday-races/ar-BB11K7Jw),
and discussions abounded across the now quite-established society of
motor racing simulation on creating a virtual equivalent which would
include both simmers and professional racing drivers.

Dozens of unofficial simulated Le Mans 24-hour endurance races varying
widely in size and variety were planned and have been/are being held --
many of them [already
years-established](https://www.iracing.com/coanda-core-williams-score-24-hours-of-le-mans-class-victories/)
before our late quarantine. It wasn't until the middle of last month
that the ACO and FIA [declared a
partnership](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mikestubbs/2020/05/15/with-the-physical-race-postponed-le-mans-turns-to-esports/#69664a9e1b8c)
with Motorsport Games in hosting the first officially-sanctioned Virtual
Le Mans on the real deal's traditional weekend via the decade+-old
hardcore platform rFactor 2. "The current pandemic has impacted all of
our lives to various degrees, but it has also given sim racing and
esports its moment to shine and this event will be the ultimate
expression of that," commentator and Motorsports Network President James
Allen told *Forbes*. "I love the scope of it: **The world's greatest
race brought to life on its original scheduled weekend as the world's
greatest esports race**." (Emphasis mine.)

## ![Jenson Button Honking Compilation \| 2020 24 Hours of Le Mans Virtual Test Race](media/image2.jpg){width="5.0in" height="3.75in"}

## Thursday

I had hoped that the ever-widening normality of livestreaming would lend
toward much more intimate access to the teams' preparation process
during Le Mans week, but I was only able to find a total of three of
Thursday's preparatory activities -- only one of which was in English.
Professional German simracer and streamer Michi Hoyer [broadcasted the
first (final-spec) consolidated test race](https://youtu.be/5Qw8yjhkyz4)
with all participating drivers/teams together on the same server, which
was worryingly quite fraught with technical issues. It was the first
time I'd ever seen footage of rFactor 2, which is now a 12 year-old
platform with visual and auditory effects that certainly show its age --
especially when compared to more "sim-cade" current titles like [*Gran
Turismo Sport*](https://flic.kr/s/aHsmL5R2kH), [*Forza Motorsport
7*](https://flic.kr/s/aHsm8xp5uE), and even [*Assetto
Corsa*](https://flic.kr/s/aHskd6ixfa). Hoyer appeared to be in a Discord
server with a few engineers/other staff from his team as well as
connected to an official voice channel for Race Control, which was
issuing instructions through a single British male voice.

Around [41 minutes into the
stream](https://youtu.be/5Qw8yjhkyz4?t=2474), race

## Saturday

![](media/image3.png){width="8.491666666666667in"
height="4.776388888888889in"}From a for-hire television production space
in the dead center of Paris called [Studio
Gabriel](https://www.lemans.org/en/news/studio-gabriel-ground-zero-for-the-24-hours-of-le-mans-virtual/53906),
Radio Le Mans legends Martin Haven and Allan McNish gathered with Ben
Constanduros, Hayley Edmunds, and two new faces from the sim racing
tribe -- Lewis McGlade and Chris McCarthy -- to preface the green flag
by half an hour. The two eSports-commentating invitees flanked Martin
and Ben (obviously less than six feet apart!) around a news desk in
front of a wall of digital displays playing slowed B-roll of previous
real-world Le Mans' most romantic moments. A replay of a past event's
pre-race national anthem performance was interspersed with live images
(I assume) of entrants -- obviously in their own homes -- standing at
attention next to their intricate sim rigs and a few apparently-candid
shots of others sitting in their racing seats, headphones on, staring
blankly ahead at their screens. More general race information followed
in the form of motion graphics and last-minute driver interviews before
a full cut to past footage again -- this time to some year's flyover by
the French equivalent of the Frecce Tricolori, which was concluded by a
celebrity(?) named Eduardo instructing through a liberal saturation of
digital reverb effect "gentlemen, please start your engine."

Upon the frame's return to the idling, diagonally situated starting
grid, Tatiana Calderon in the Richard Mille #50 car accidentally
reversed her parked prototype straight into the wall, but none of the
commentary crew was really in a position to notice. As he has for the
real-world Le Mans since the beginning of time, Martin Haven shined as
hypeman for the kickoff of the formation lap: "if *that* hasn't raised
the [hackles](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/hackles) on the
back of your neck, I don't know what will."

Though I am not what you'd accurately call an endurance racing superfan,
I have made a point to experience every Le Mans 24 Hours since 2012's as
fully as possible. My tradition involves staying up for as much of the
race as possible -- for the entirety more often than not -- listening to
Radio Le Mans, obnoxiously occupying #LM24 on Twitter, and relying on
manufacturers' onboard YouTube streams for live visuals whenever
possible (I have never had cable.) Most of my cumulative experience
following endurance racing, though, has been auditory. Haven's voice has
some very specific qualities that became deeply embedded in my
unconscious associations with the whole of the event, but I'd somehow
never actually seen his face until the brief pre-race program on the
official Virtual Le Mans stream. For just a few moments, shots of his
and Allan McNish's professionally illuminated heads were broadcasted *as
they spoke*. I truly crossed a threshold, beholding this.

## Post-Race
