---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Marketing & UX Copywriter at Doist
***
At Doist, our mission is to inspire the workplace of the future by creating simple yet powerful productivity tools that promote a more fulfilling way to work and live.

We're a multidisciplinary, fully remote team that’s passionate about creating products, like Todoist and Twist, that improve people’s lives. We thrive on innovating new solutions to old productivity challenges and we seek to rethink how productivity tools are made.

### Our Core Values

They are few, but they are mighty. From creating processes to decision-making and recruiting, we build our five core values into nearly every single thing we do.

  * **Independence.** Others can trust that you’ll deliver on time and your teammates don’t need to worry about you keeping your word.

  * **Mastery.** You love what you do and care deeply about the quality of your work, down to the smallest details. You’re continuously learning and pushing yourself to the limits of your ability. You're never satisfied with the status quo.

  * **Communication.** Your communication is clear, concise, and engaging whether you're explaining a complex idea or providing feedback to a teammate.

  * **Ambition & Balance.** You aspire to put a dent in the universe. To do this, you set high standards for yourself and those around you. The time you spend on work isn’t measured by quantity, but by quality.

  * **Impact.** You're able to take a bird's eye view to pinpoint and then solve issues that have a high impact on our customers, our team, and our company. You're committed to the health and success of both your teammates and Doist as a company.

We invite you to [visit our blog](https://blog.doist.com/) to learn more about us, our values, and how we work.

### Your Role

As a Marketing & UX Copywriter you’ll be a superhero: both an out-of-the-box creative marketing copywriter and clear, concise, and consistent UX writer. You’ll utilize your top-notch creative writing skills to draft, edit, and publish multiple types of content like blog posts, changelogs, email newsletters, ad copy, product guides, and fun messages to users. Then you’ll turn around and build clear, translatable, and (above all) accessible in-app copy based on research and data insights. Finally, you’ll spin once more to edit others’ writing with an eye for consistency, brand tone, and storytelling.

You’re also not afraid of data — you’ll be testing your in-app copy hypotheses alongside the research team and your marketing copy hypotheses with campaign data. Lastly, as manager of the style guide, you’ll be tactfully influencing writers across the company to keep us all educated on best practices — with a close eye on accessibility and inclusivity.

On a day-to-day basis you’ll:

  * Distill technical information into simple, clear copy for changelogs, in-app modals, buttons, menus, emails, and more

  * Build and manage the entire in-app copy process to ensure consistency across two apps

  * Work with product designers to influence the product and reduce friction for users

  * Work with translators to audit in-app copy and maintain consistency

  * Manage all email copy, from lifecycle emails to what’s new campaigns

  * Write copy for social channels, ads, website landing pages, blogs, and more

  * Maintain the style guide and educate writers company-wide with newsletters and training

### About you

It's important to us that the person we hire can thrive and be successful in this role. Reflecting on your past experiences, you have:

  * produced memorable, out-of-the-box product-related ad campaigns

  * crafted product-related blog posts, videos, guides, and more with benefit-driven, compelling storylines

  * managed in-app copy, teaming up with product designers to create clear, accessible user experiences

  * kept accessibility and inclusion at the forefront of your mind, constantly learning about how to center historically marginalized users in order to make a product and campaign better for all

  * edited with a hawk-eye for even the smallest, most minuscule details

  * educated different types of team members about brand style guides, fluidly adjusting your communication style according to the audience you are addressing

  * empathized strongly with users, channeling it into the various types of content that you write, both long- and short-form

  * used information from user research, SEO, traffic analytics, email analytics, marketing data dashboards, and more to inform future copy decisions

## Requirements

Not sure the role is a good fit for you? That's okay! We'd still be happy to consider you. Here's what the process will look like:

  1. Submit your complete application. This including a resume (or manually entered experience) and thoughtful responses to all the application questions. No cover letter needed!

  2. Application screening. We read every application to understand your motivation, skills, and experience. Once your application has been reviewed, you'll receive a response regarding the status of your application typically within one week. Don't panic if it takes a bit longer, everyone will get a response.

  3. Interview with a member of the Marketing team (to be determined).

  4. Salary range check via email with Andrew G. (People Operations Generalist)

  5. We'll ask you to complete a test project.

  6. Interview with Aer P. (Product Marketer)

  7. Interview with Brenna L. (Head of Marketing)

-"[Doist](https://doist.com/careers/0C7874C17F-marketing-and-ux-copywriter)"