---
share: true
---
# Awesome Drafts integration! But also, a heads up!
- [URL](https://discuss.write.as/t/awesome-drafts-integration-but-also-a-heads-up/5418)

Hey @DavidBlue! I just saw your post on the forums about the integration you created with Drafts. It’s really cool! Would you know if it also works with Drafts on the Mac? If you’re okay with it, I’d like to share this on Mastodon/Twitter/Micro.blog — do let me know! :slight_smile:

One little heads up, though: your YouTube video shows you copying and pasting an access token. Access tokens are essentially shorthand for your login credentials, and should be protected in the same way — in the same way that you wouldn’t share your password, you should avoid sharing an access token, as it allows anyone that has it the ability to interact with the Write.as API as you.

In case this was an active token, I called the log user out endpoint to invalidate it. This essentially means that it can’t be used to log in as the compaq user on Write.as anymore — but it also means that if you’re trying to use that same access token in, for example, your Drafts action, you’ll have to provide the action with a new access token.

I’d recommend going through content for compaq user on Write.as to confirm that everything still looks okay, just in case someone tested this and used the same token to post something, modify an old post, create a collection, &cet.

Let me or @matt know if you have any questions or comments!

Best,

Angelo

---

Sorry about that! I actually intended to invalidate that token but forgot. The compaq account is just for testing so honestly I appreciate you doing that for me. 

I would absolutely love it if you shared the integration whereever and yes, it does indeed work on the Mac! While you're at it, you might also want to share [the integration I made](https://actions.taio.app/#/service?id=writeas-collection-post) for the macOS/iPadOS/iOS app [Taio](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/taio-markdown-text-actions/id1527036273). 