---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# "Write.as Platform Guidelines" 
Updated `07232022-134426`

-"[Write.as Platform Guidelines](https://write.as/guidelines)"
- [WTF](https://davidblue.wtf/drafts/3BC17756-F243-4481-BB46-684631293F26.html)

---

These guidelines apply to the entire Write.as platform. For the Read Write.as section of the platform, see our [Public Community Guidelines](https://read.write.as/community).

We are an open community for everyone to share their thoughts freely. Write.as provides a platform that [keeps your identity safe](https://write.as/privacy), and stands up for free expression.

While Write.as is flexible enough to find tons of uses, we made it for a few things in particular. In order to help us stay true to [our principles](/principles) and focus on improving the platform (instead of policing it), and to protect the reputation of other writers, we ask that everyone publishing here abide by a few basic policies.

## Use Write.as for this
  - **Personal writing**. Share your thoughts, feelings, trials, tribulations, and anything on your mind.
  - **Anonymous writing**. Write about things that are controversial, or that aren't acceptable in your normal social circles. Express yourself freely without worrying about who's watching.
  - **Educational writing**. Share your knowledge and expertise with others. Start a blog for your classroom, or submit your essays via the platform.
  - **Professional writing**. Create a portfolio or share your professional insights.
  - **A company blog**. Publish company news and product updates.

## Don't use Write.as for this
  - **Malicious speech**. Don't encourage violence or hatred. Don't use Write.as to bully people.
  - **Building backlinks**. This isn't a free place for building backlinks. Don't publish pure SEO articles that don't offer any real value — especially when you're already spamming them across other free sites on the web.
  - **Spam**. Don't repeatedly post the same content. Don't use our platform for spamming people elsewhere on the web, or circumventing the content filters on other sites, like Facebook.
  - **Deceptive or link-only posts**. Don't willingly mislead people, especially in order to coerce them into something like downloading malware, giving you Bitcoin, or clicking your affiliate link.
  - **Privacy violations**. Do not undermine anyone's privacy. Don't post personal details without someone's consent, including credit card numbers, social security numbers, or other sensitive information.
  - **Unlawful uses**. Don't use Write.as to conduct illegal behavior, like fraud or phishing.
  - **Exploits and resource abuse**. Don't attempt to exploit, disrupt, or otherwise abuse our system resources.

## How we handle platform violations

In most cases, we will **limit the reach*- of violating content on Write.as, instead of outright deleting it, to be sure no innocent content is lost. This could mean taking technical measures to remove the content from either search engines or all readers who aren't the author.
In cases of blatant and obvious abuse, such as when we detect automated publishing activity, we will remove the posts without warning. We'll also take all technical means possible to prevent similar behavior in the future, including:
  - Account silencing
  - Permanent IP- or device-level bans
  - Merciless mockery
  - Various functionality designed to waste your time

If you feel we've wrongfully flagged you, we're happy to [listen to your appeal](https://write.as/contact) and quickly get you back online if needed.

## Changes
We'll announce any major changes to this policy on our [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/writeas**).
  *[SEO]: Search Engine Optimization