---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# WWDC 2022 Family Message
- [WTF](https://davidblue.wtf/drafts/40DDAE2D-6114-4571-ACCA-8C77662384C3.html)

well guys, today was the big Apple day again. 

- we're going to see a completely redesigned lock screen system on our iPhones and iPads, for some gosh darned reason, that frankly looks and feels like nothing but trouble to me off the bat. 
- uhhhh we're getting new memoji hairstyles.
- CarPlay's useless, resource-hogging 3D hellworld has been made even more graphically substantial for absolutely no defensible reason.
- the Weather app has been similarly redesigned with a bunch of fancy graphics in which information very few human beings could possibly make day-to-day use of will be more colorfully rendered. 
- Collaboration has been heavily invested in across the platforms despite the fact that anyone "collaborating" remotely in their workday is going to be using Microsoft products instead. 
- a *lot* of stuff that was promised for iOS 15 has now been promised again for iOS 16 (mostly Apple Wallet features.)
- Apple Books will be letting you adjust line width, height, and will allow you to choose from three more color themes!
- just like last year, the only genuinely original features (shared Safari Tab Groups, Quick Notes on iPhone) are ones I can't imagine most folks using regularly.
- BUT, the Health app is finally going to be getting **Medication Tracking** and **Medication Logging**, though I see no evidence in the first beta so...

also, I discovered this morning that Apple will be killing one of the very last smart Siri features that wasn’t particularly useful (it just showed a pretty graphic of all the planes flying above you at any given time) but was one of my old favs, so that was a nice personal treat.

oh and - surprise, surprise - the computers will be getting faster.