---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Raindrop Telegram Bot
[**Raindrop.io bookmarks**](https://t.me/raindropiobot)

For those Raindrop users among you…

I strongly encourage you try out [this Telegram bot](https://t.me/raindropiobot) I’ve been using for the past few months. 

## Saves
- Photos and Videos sent using the “quick” (possibly, but very unlikely to be compressed) method.
- Some image and video files sent directly
- .txt files but *not* md files unfortunately

> Hey hey! I can help you with forwarding links or posts from Telegram directly to your 'Unsorted' in Raindrop.io. You have set up all necessary settings, but if you would like to configure bot from scratch you can still use /config. If you would like to change particular settings just press /settings
> 
> What I can do
> ✔️ Save links from this chats to Raindrop (into 'Unsorted' collection). Check yourself and send me any link :)
> ✔️ Easily share your raindrops in other chats, just type @raindropiobot <search query> in any chat and pick which raindrop you would like to share. You can use all advanced parameters in search query.
> ✔️ Save forwarded posts to Raindrop (no more 'Saved Messages' cluttered with longreads!). Just forward me one of more messages and I'll try to guess is it just announce with link or article itself and handle it accordingly.
> 
> Please, note that this bot isn't affiliated with Raindrop.io and being developed and supported on non-profit basis. You can check out source code here and ask for help or report any issues here.

===

## Feedback
- [Welcome to raindrop-telegram-bot Discussions! · Discussion #1 · OlegWock/raindrop-telegram-bot](https://github.com/OlegWock/raindrop-telegram-bot/discussions/1#discussioncomment-1959262)
Just wanted to express my profound appreciation for bridging these two services... Can't even begin to express how handy this bot has been in my life in the past few months... and I was under the assumption it could *only* accept URLs until just a minute ago, for some reason…. lol an adventure awaits!

[](url:drafts://runAction?test=&action=Keyboard%2520Shortcuts%2520Export)