---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Comment on Sam Sheffer's Humane video

Sam, ily. I stopped by a stream you were doing of your editing process and engaging real time in (passionate! constructive) editorial discussions with folks, which is like nothing I've ever seen from YouTubers *or* tech journos. it's ridiculous that I feel the need to say so (ridiculous of this platform and its fundamental design, not ridiculous of me,) but I want to express precisely how I got to this video, for the record, because it (debatably) didn't involve a single algorithmic recommendation technology:

1. I was fucking born.
2. A friend i made in first grade sent me some videos by Mark Watson, iJustine, and Jon Rettinger, and I made an account on The YouTube Web Site so that I might populate a reverse-chronological feed of their videos in order as they were published!!! These three would often cite articles in their videos about consumer electronics products from world wide websites like
3. Michael Bloomberg hired my favorite DJ (whomst made the excellent Pistol Whip Song), Joshua Ryan, to make a website and then ended up fucking hating that website 

I'm going to say something fairly boilerplate, now

content

---

So...  in 420 YEARS of experience working for Apple, Incorporated, nobody saw anything to suggest their utterly irrational, bonkers, and often *inhumane* obsession with secrecy is anything but good practices, eh? Hmmm... Well, I appreciate that you did the work of speculating, Sam, so that we don't have to, but honestly - ESPECIALLY considering it's a company of so many engineers??? - if these people didn't write "open source the bitch" as item 1a on their very first idea napkin, who gives a shit how many synonyms of "really nice people" they use to describe themselves? I know you're closer to the industry personalities than I've ever been, but dude... we have *got* to stop indulging this Big Idea Men hero worship. it's just not tenable or cute anymore. 

Or to suggest that 

---

> ...making it so that the devices are no longer a burden

uh bro thank your wife for me for the iOS clipboard but UHHH 

08:27 

"...looking at restoring that balance, making it so that the devices are no longer a burden, they're actually what they were intended to do, and that is to make you feel superhuman... not be enslaved." 

SUPERHUMAN???

bro I bought my phone to SEND EMAIL and CALL MY MOM.

https://youtu.be/hlJxWpsuChk?t=506

I love you, Sam, and I never want to take away your enthusiasm, but these people are fucking insane in a very consequential way. 
192.168.0.1/login.html
