---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# TextExpander Changes Coming on iOS

- [TextExpander Changes Coming on iOS](https://forums.getdrafts.com/t/textexpander-changes-coming-on-ios/13105)
- [Things](things:///show?id=nciG5xVj5gc5Z3NAiY1xQ)

---

## Social

- [Drafts User Group Slack](https://agiletortoise.slack.com/archives/C82A9NK0E/p1659810541915239?thread_ts=1659733041.150669&channel=C82A9NK0E&message_ts=1659810541.915239)
> Very much appreciate the heads up, Greg. I guess it's a little melodramatic of me but yeah. This is going to suck big time for me. Drafts is the only reason I use TextExpander, period, and I hope they're aware of what they're throwing away. Never wanted to be the *needing to announce I'm no longer paying for a subscription as if anyone really cares* person but I think I'm gonna for the sake of persuading them to just... reconsider?


---

agiletortoise | 2022-08-06 13:52:20 UTC | #1

I know a number of [TextExpander](https://textexpander.com/) users take advantage of Drafts' integration and direct support of TextExpander on iOS. I wanted to give you all a head's up this direct integration will no longer be available in upcoming versions of TextExpander, so anyone relying on that integration in their workflow can plan accordingly.

### What does this mean for Drafts users?

If you do not use TextExpander, nothing. If you use TextExpander on macOS, also, nothing. TextExpander will continue to function in Drafts as-always on macOS.

If you use TextExpander integration on iOS, be aware that the direct integration in existing versions of Drafts will stop being able to refresh snippets and fill-in snippets will cease functioning after a TextExpander update sometime this Fall. Around the same time, TextExpander support will be removed from Drafts in an update.

To expand TextExpander snippets on iOS after this change, you will need to use the new TextExpander keyboard, which is in beta testing now. 

Additionally, snippets in action templates that are expanded when the action is run using `<<>>` syntax will stop working.

### How can I replace TextExpander functionality in Drafts?

You can, of course, continue to use TextExpander with Drafts, just via the new TextExpander keyboard. If you rely on other TextExpander functionality that is missing, please feel free to describe your use-case on the forums and we can help suggest alternatives. There are many options with Drafts, such the ["Insert Text" action step](https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/actions/steps/utility#insert-text) and [Autocomplete](https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/editor/autocomplete) that can be used in similar ways...as well as options like Apple's own text replacement system.

### More From TextExpander

For more details on the changes and to get early access to TextExpander's new iOS keyboard, please follow the link below and confer with TextExpander support directly with any concerns.

https://textexpander.com/sdksunset

-------------------------

sylumer | 2022-08-06 13:50:06 UTC | #2

Wow. The i\*OS integration with apps had been a significant draw for  me for years. I use TextExpander across Windows PC, Mac, iPad and iPhone. The cross platform syncing of snippets has been key to my workflow for years now.

I sincerely hope that  the folks over at TextExpander know what they are doing with this approach and it is an improvement rather then a regression.

What I am concerned about is how this change in approach will work with hardware keyboards on mobile Apple operating systems. First impression is it won't. If so, that's a game changer for me and not in a good way!

-------------------------

agiletortoise | 2022-08-06 13:55:33 UTC | #3

The new TextExpander keyboard _does_ work with hardware keyboards on iPad. It does have to be currently selected virtual keyboard, but it will work in any app.

-------------------------

sylumer | 2022-08-06 13:58:26 UTC | #4

I wish I'd waited for you to reply before I tweeted TextExpander about how they are dealing with that 😆

Breathing a little easier now...

Thanks.

-------------------------

Dirky | 2022-08-06 14:36:13 UTC | #5

Wow

I’ve been a drafts user for ages and a TextExpander user for even longer, I had no idea that it worked in iOS drafts. Silly me. 
Looks like it will be less convenient going forwards though.

-------------------------

CMx3 | 2022-08-06 15:02:52 UTC | #6

In other news: https://textexpander.com/press/summit-investment-in-textexpander

-------------------------

