---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Video-In Defense of Toyota GAZOO's Ruthless & Absolute Domination of #LeMans24... even to oblivion.
- [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/extratone/bilge/issues/336)

---

## Description

Akio Toyoda, President, Toyota Motor Corporation,
June Ninteenth, 2016:

"From the bottom of my heart, I would like to thank everyone who lent us their incredible support during this year's 24 Hours of Le Mans. We of Toyota GAZOO Racing put tremendous pressure on ourselves to break our losing streak at Le Mans and fought so hard to make up for the unfortunate results of the past. All of the mechanics, engineers, drivers, suppliers, and everyone else involved with the team made incredible sacrifices and achieved constant improvements to build an even-better car for this year's Le Mans. Just as our dreams began to come true, we all made to burn that moment into our minds even as unbelievable heartbreak unfolded before our very eyes. Toyota's cars have become so fast and so strong. But Porsche grew even faster and they were stronger. Throughout the 24 hours of the race―and, indeed, the 30 total hours including qualifying―it is not such an easy thing to continue to drive faster and more powerfully than anyone else on the road at Le Mans. When I think of what everyone in the team must be feeling… not to mention everyone who supported us… I honestly do not know what to say. I cannot find the words. We at Toyota GAZOO Racing are "sore losers." We do not compete without knowing the feeling of loss. Having tasted the true bitterness of losing, we will return to the World Endurance Championship arena next year, and we will return to compete in the battle that is the 24 Hours of Le Mans. For our quest to build ever-better cars… For this, we will certainly come back to the roads of Le Mans. I would like to express my gratitude to all of the cars and drivers who fought alongside us on the track at Le Mans; particularly Porsche and Audi. We will be back next year, reborn, and ready to take you on with all of our might. Look out for the "sore losers," Toyota, on the track next year. The fight is not over!"

※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣   ※⃣
World Wide Web: https://bilge.world 
Contact Card: https://davidblue.wtf/db.vcf
Twitter: https://twitter.com/NeoYokel 
Mastodon: https://mastodon.social/@DavidBlue 
Instagram: https://instagram.com/asphaltapostle
davidblue@extratone.com 

【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】【※】

『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』『※』

≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋※≋

░※░※░※░※░※░※░※░※░※░※░

## Tags

lemans24, toyota gazoo racing, le mans prototypes, lmp1 powertrain, infotainment, opinion, audi

```
lemans24, toyota gazoo racing, le mans prototypes, lmp1 powertrain, infotainment, opinion, audi
```