---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# RoutineHub Membership

01112022-5502

**RoutineHub is a community.** It's not made just of the code I write, but of the people who contribute really amazing shortcuts and share them to the world.

By subscribing to a yearly membership you will receive exclusive features, and in turn, your support will help me continue to host, maintain and build new features for RoutineHub.

Thank you for considering becoming a Community Member. I am continuously humbled by the support for my work.

Benefits 

By contributing **$10 per year**, you can: 

  * Show off your Member username badge
  * Pin your current favorite Shortcut to your profile.
  * View detailed statistics (daily downloads, daily visits, top referrers, etc.) for your Shortcuts.
  * Turn off ethical ads.
  * <s>Have **unlimited** collections for better organization</s> **Coming Soon!**

Become a member today!

* * *

### Questions

#### __ When will I be billed?

You will be billed each year on the same day that you started. You can find the exact date on your [settings page](/settings) under the Community Membership section

#### __ When will I receive access to the features in my tier?

You will be able to use these features immediately.

#### __ Are these all the features?

There will be more features added as time goes on.

#### __ Will features ever change?

Possibly. If that happens, you will be notified well in advance.

#### __ I thought this site was free to use?

It is! But it still costs money to host the site, maintain the code and add new features. Community Memberships are another way to help support those costs without having to do 3rd-party advertising or selling of user data. You will always be able to use the main features of the site. These extra features are just special ones that aren't really necessary to use the site, but some people will find interesting or useful.

#### __ Do you offer refunds?

Yes. However, you must request a refund within 5 days of your last payment. You can request a refund via [the support page.](/support)

#### __ What if I have billing issues?

Please contact me via [the support page.](/support)

-"[RoutineHub - Community Membership](https://routinehub.co/membership/)"