---
share: true
dg-publish: true
---
# Enpass
Hello everyone. We’re excited to share a big update with you. This release isn’t just about bug fixes and minor improvements. We’re celebrating the start of a whole new era for Enpass – Enpass for Business!


Businesses and large enterprises can now use Enpass to secure the passwords and sensitive data of their teams, and yes – we are still OFFLINE. We know not everyone is comfortable storing their passwords on someone else’s servers, and that applies to businesses too. Your wait for an offline password manager for your workplace over now that Enpass for Business is here.


We’ve also made many productivity improvements. So, grab a coffee and go through the changelog:
 

WHAT’S NEW 

- Enpass for businesses: If you’re in a business not using any password manager for team members and waited for any offline one, your wait is over! Enpass Business is here – keep your business sensitive data on your devices/cloud, set password policies, onboard users via SCIM supported Active Directory and there’s lot more if you’re using Microsoft 365 Business. Checkout our website for more! 
- Automatic Compromised Password Checker: Password auditing has become more effective with added security. Compromised password checking is now automatic in Enpass and triggers whenever a new password is added or changed. Just turn it on from Audit > Compromised. 
- Added a new Search tab in the bottom bar to make your search easier with a quick view of recently used items. 


IMPROVEMENTS

- While creating or editing an item, you’ll now get suggestions to auto-complete the fields for Usernames, Emails, and Phone numbers with the most used values in the selected vault.
- On the Edit page, you will now have an option for password fields to use a password from the generator’s history. This is helpful when password for any website is changed successfully using the browser extension but the extension itself fails to capture the updated password for any reason. You can now manually edit the item and access the last generated password using this option. 
- Now make bottomless notes! Yeah, you heard it right, the Note field can now take all the text you want to enter. Along with this, we have also improved the notes for you to view the top 4 lines.  
- The time interval for one-time codes can be changed from the default value of 30 seconds.  
- Revamped the bottom bar to deliver faster navigation and search experience. Groups tab is now "Browse" with improved UI.  
- Added an option to hide website and username suggestions on the keyboard while auto-filling. 
- The process of setting up Enpass is now faster and more fluent with first choosing the location for the vault followed by Master Password.  
 

IMPROVEMENTS FOR MULTIPLE VAULT USERS 

- Added an option to select vaults whose items will be displayed in iOS Widget. 
- Improved the vault selection behavior while saving items in Enpass. Earlier, Enpass used to store items in the pre-defined vault but now we have added options to “Always Ask” or save items in the currently “Selected Vault”. This avoids creating items in the wrong vault if the user forgets to change the pre-defined vault while creating items from the app or autosaving via browser extensions. 
- Improved user experience of adding multiple vaults by first choosing the location for vault followed by its password. 

 
FIXES
   
- Fixed an issue where the sync with box.com disconnected while trying to re-authenticate.  
- Few of our users reported an issue where the app was disconnecting the sync and returning 401 error code. Fixed.  
- Fixed an issue where the custom icon set for secondary vault was getting removed on restart.
- Fixed an issue where the Cyrillic characters in an attachment were not displayed properly while previewing attachments. 


We love hearing from you! Feel free to contact us at the following channels:
Email: support@enpass.io
Twitter: @EnpassApp
Facebook: facebook.com/EnpassApp
Forums: discussion.enpass.io